it's a short simple word no but for some
people it's extremely difficult to use
nonetheless especially so-called people
pleasers have difficulty saying no to
the people they intend to please which
is a shame because the ability to say no
not only helps us to not do things that
we don't want to do it's also a deciding
factor whether or not we're able to
commit to a task and to achieve certain
goals moreover the word know helps us to
stick with our values and principles in
the word no lies great power and in
order to wield this power it's essential
to see the workings of no and how
applying no more frequently and in the
right ways can make our lives better
this video explores the power of no
[Music]
assuming that we've got at least a
certain degree of free will the choices
we make can be reduced to a play between
two words yes and no from this binary
point of view saying yes to something
always means saying no to something else
and deliberately saying no to something
else enforces our pursuit of a certain
yes in the latter case we make a
commitment meaning that we decide to
focus on a task and stay loyal to it for
a given amount of time or even until
death a great example is a commitment to
marriage unless it's an open marriage by
saying yes to it we automatically say no
to infidelity even though for some
people saying no to infidelity isn't
hard to do for some it's truly a
sacrifice but by saying no consistently
no matter how much potential pleasure we
reject by doing so we can enjoy
something that in many cultures is
considered sacred a bond between two
people which could be a beautiful thing
but of course being a bachelor can be a
beautiful thing too for many enjoying
freedom spending time alone not having
to take someone else into account could
be considered sacred as well maintaining
this lifestyle also requires us to say
no not just to romantic relationships
but also to social norms the power of
know is the pillar that upholds the
sacred when the pillar is destroyed that
a sacredness collapses that's why if
Adam and Eve would have used the power
of know they could have left that Apple
alone and they would still be living in
paradise eternal sin resembles what many
of us do were unable to say no to quick
pleasures and thereby we destroy the
chances of obtaining what we truly want
in a long run hence if you don't
sacrifice for what you want what you
want will be your sacrifice
saying yes opens doors and opportunities
but saying no sets boundaries that
protect our ESS a Buddhist says no to
cravings for external things to end a
suffering that this brings and
athlete says no to unhealthy ways of
life to excel in sports an entrepreneur
says no to distractions in order to
focus on building a business
no in many cases means no to ourselves
to be stronger than our cravings to
postpone pleasure or to even reject it
completely to give up one dream so we
can make another one come true thus
mastering ourselves means mastering the
power of know at least as important as
saying no to our own desires is saying
no to the desires of other people our
inability to say no makes way for other
people to exploit us to hijack our time
to make us jump on their bandwagon and
thus make them the masters of our fate
when we say yes to them it's likely that
we say no to ourselves and put ourselves
in the service of someone else's yeses
thus we say no to our own dreams to
fulfill those of someone else or we help
someone not because we want to or
because helping them aligns with our
values but simply because we cannot say
no saying no to other people isn't easy
we are conditioned to do what people say
to conform to other people's wishes to
follow the herd to put our own needs and
wishes aside for someone else also we
might have experienced resistance when
we say no in the form of arguments or
even anger people might give us the cold
shoulder
after we don't fulfill their requests or
threaten to anti-relationship if we
don't do what they want but do we really
want to maintain and exploit it a
friendship because of our need for
people to like us do we really want to
stay in an abusive relationship because
we're afraid to be alone it sounds
ridiculous but the fear of being
disliked or abandoned is often a reason
why people are afraid to say no however
those who truly care about us will
respect or no while the users and
abusers will disappear saying no
therefore is a great filter when it
comes to relationships
the downside is however that it's often
uncomfortable painful and it even makes
us feel guilty still refusing to go
through these
discomfort that come with saying no can
have terrible consequences in the long
run not only do boundaries get violated
or time wasted and our needs unmet we
also run the risk to become resentful we
might become angry at the people that
seem to control our lives and when we
realize that they do it because we let
them we become angry at ourselves as
well
the latter also happens when we keep
screwing up saying no to stupid life
choices and are more and more
gravitating to an existence that we
don't want which is a product of saying
yes to a lot of things but never to that
one thing that we really really want
then we quickly realize that the only
way to get out of this rut is by
embracing that little word called
know so we can escape that abusive
relationship toxic friends group cult
ideology habit addiction or whatever
holds us back from leading a more
fulfilling life no is a complete
sentence this means that we're not
obligated to explain or know to anyone
although in some situations it might be
better to do so but ultimately it's up
to us to decide if we can live with the
consequences of affirm know without
further clarification as adults were
entitled to say no regardless of other
people's reactions this is the blessing
that comes with being responsible for
our own actions in a world that's
totally out of control our actions are
the only things that we do control why
should we put others in charge of the
one and only thing that's in our power
thank you for watching
[Music]
you